elcome to the Week 2 Challenge. This takes the form of a quiz that you are meant to take by group (one student answers for their group.) Two attempts are allowed for each question (I think... moodle can be moodly smile ) Don't worry about marks and have fun with this exercise: it doesn't count as a formal assessment. 
欢迎参加第二周挑战。本次挑战以小组测验的形式进行（每组派一名学生代表小组作答）。每题允许两次作答（我想……Moodle 的作答次数可能是零次）。不必担心分数，尽情享受这次练习吧：它不计入正式考核。

14 files have been modulated using OFDM (full details below) and passed through a channel with a known impulise response (the same for all files). Your task is to recover the files, and guess which Cambridge college the file relates to (sometimes in a very roundabout way... the last file relates to 2 colleges and both are accepted answers. I think all spellings or short names of colleges should work, and the answer is not case sensitive).
14 个文件已使用 OFDM 调制（详情见下文），并通过一个已知脉冲响应的信道传输（所有文件的脉冲响应相同）。你的任务是恢复这些文件，并猜测每个文件对应的剑桥大学学院 （有时需要绕弯……最后一个文件与两个学院相关，两个答案都有效。我认为学院名称的所有拼写或简称都可以，答案不区分大小写）。

First, download the channel impulse response here. 
首先，请在此处下载通道脉冲响应。

each file was modulated as binary data and preceded by a header that contains a ‘\0’ terminated string with the file name, and another ‘\0’ terminated string with the file size (number of bytes.) After the second ‘\0’ it’s raw file data for the number of bytes specified in the file size string.
每个文件都被调制成二进制数据，并在其前面加上一个标头，该标头包含一个以“\0”结尾的字符串，其中包含文件名，以及另一个以“\0”结尾的字符串，其中包含文件大小（字节数）。第二个“\0”之后是文件大小字符串中指定的字节数的原始文件数据。
Bytes were mapped to QPSK constellations 2 bits at a time (starting from the most significant 2 bytes and ending with the least significant 2 bytes) using Gray coding (anti-clockwise starting from pi/4 bit pairs 00, 01, 11, 10).
使用格雷码（从最高有效 2 个字节开始，到最低有效 2 个字节结束，逆时针方向从 π/4 位对 00、01、11、10 开始），将字节一次映射 2 位到 QPSK 星座图。
Note: I am not 100% confident about the ordering of the Gray coding. You may want to check 00 10 11 01 just in case…
注：我对格雷码的顺序并非百分之百确定。建议您检查一下 00 10 11 01，以防万一……
Note 2: if any of you write “Grey” like some lecturers in Cambridge who feel that they prefer to use British spelling, please aware that Frank Gray from Bell Labs who came up with this mapping spelled his name “Gray” irrespective of which continent he happened to be on… Please don’t join the those misinformed lecturers who want to impose British spelling on his family name
注 2：如果您像剑桥大学某些讲师那样，坚持使用英式拼写，将姓氏拼写为“Grey”，请注意，贝尔实验室的弗兰克·格雷（Frank Gray ）无论身处哪个大洲，他的名字拼写都是“Gray”。请不要加入那些误解情况的讲师行列，强行将英式拼写应用于他的姓氏。
An IDFT size of 1024 was applied with a cyclic prefix of length 32. Information is only mapped to frequency bins 1 to 511. Frequency bins 513 to 1023 contain the reverse ordered conjugate complex values of frequency bins 1 to 511. Frequency bins 0 and 512 contain 0 (no information, value 0.) This all ensures that the output of the OFDM modulator is a real (baseband) vector.
应用了大小为 1024 的 IDFT，并带有长度为 32 的循环前缀。信息仅映射到频率区间 1 至 511。频率区间 513 至 1023 包含频率区间 1 至 511 的反向共轭复值。频率区间 0 和 512 包含 0（无信息，值为 0）。所有这些都确保了 OFDM 调制器的输出是一个实数（基带）向量。
2 bit groups were added at the end of the data to complete an integer factor of 511. Those extra 2 bit groups are all 00 (note that this is not a good idea for your final modem!)
在数据末尾添加了 2 位组，以补全整数因子 511。这额外的 2 位组全部为 00（请注意，这对于最终的调制解调器来说不是一个好主意！）
A cyclic prefix of 32 was appended before each DFT block and the resulting blocks of 1056 values were concatenated into one long signal.
在每个 DFT 块之前附加一个循环前缀 32，并将得到的 1056 个值块连接成一个长信号。
In OFDM terminology, a "block of data whose iDFT/DFT  you take then add a cyclic prefix" is confusingly called an "OFDM symbol". We will call the constellation symbols that make up the block "constellation values" to avoid confusion with "OFDM symbols". Finally, avoid speaking of "blocks" at this stage because later in the standardisation you may think of "blocks" and "frames" comprising several OFDM symbols with an agreed prefix for synchronisation and channel estimation.
在 OFDM 术语中，“经过 iDFT/DFT 变换并添加循环前缀的数据块”被容易混淆地称为“OFDM 符号”。为了避免与“OFDM 符号”混淆，我们将构成数据块的星座符号称为“星座值”。最后，在此阶段请避免使用“块”一词，因为在后续的标准化过程中，您可能会想到由多个 OFDM 符号组成的“块”和“帧”，这些符号具有用于同步和信道估计的约定前缀。
In this exercise, there is no need for synchronisation or channel estimation: the channel is known and the first OFDM symbols starts with the first received sample in the data I am supplying.
在这个练习中，不需要同步或信道估计：信道是已知的，并且第一个 OFDM 符号从我提供的数据中接收到的第一个样本开始。
This signal was fed through an ISI channel consisting of an FIR with the impulse response you have been given. The FIR operates a linear convolution with the input signal. (the convolution results in a longer received vector but you can cut it down to what you believe to be the size of the original transmitted vector as the extra transmitted samples are irrelevant)
该信号通过一个 ISI 通道，该通道由一个 FIR 滤波器组成，其脉冲响应已给出。该 FIR 滤波器与输入信号进行线性卷积。（卷积会导致接收向量变长，但您可以将其缩短到您认为与原始发射向量长度相同的长度，因为额外的发射样本无关紧要。）
Very low power noise was added.
添加的功率噪声非常低。
